# Group Meeting Agenda Week 3 (15th August 3pm)

## Items to be discussed/settled
* Any issues raised over the last week David has documented some issues here: https://github.com/noobling/prof-comp/blob/master/issues_and_resolutions.md
* Progress on everyone's assigned tasks
* Asigning project acceptance tests and stories
* What to send to/ask client
